**HashMap**

Hashmap or HashTable are a common data-structure used to store key-value pairs for efficient retrieval. A value stored in hashmap is retrieved using the key, which assigned some hash.

`Dictionary` is the python's implementation of hashmap

***Hashing***

Hashing is a process of converting a key(input) into a fixed size hash-code
Hashing(Hash-Function) depeneds upon two factors:

    - Hash Code
    - Compression Funtion
  
    1. `Hash-Code:` It is responsible to convert key into int (e.g Converting key content to its equivalent ascii codes and then add each of them)
     
    2. `Compression-Function:` It is responsible that the hash code generated by hash-function must be lower than buckets length or must be in bucket size array (e.g Use mod so that ans could not be greater than lenght)


****Time-Complexity(HashMap)****
`Insertion`: O(1)
`Searching`: O(1)
`Deletion`: O(1)

***Collision Handling***

Sometimes, it happens that two or more than two keys generates similar hash, which results in hashing-collision. There are two ways to deal with it: 

    - Open Addressing
    - Close Addressing
  
    1. Open-Addressing:
        In Open-Addressing, we store the value in same hash location, instead we assign single value,we can make linkedlist or array at that address, this leads to `Separate Chaining`, in which Time-Complexity is O(n). `n` is the lenght of linkedlist or array
    
    2. Close-Addressing:
       In Close-Addressing, we do not store multiple values at same hash, instead we find empty-space through some techniques which are:

        1. Linear Probing (Linearly checks if there is an empty space in bucket array)
        2. Quadratic Probing (Sqaures the current index and then check if the space avaible for new index)
        3. Custome Probling (Your own algorithm)
   
*****Load Factor*****
Load Factor is a measure of how full the hast table is. It is defined as the ration of number of elements in the hash table to number of buckets or slots available

`Load Factor` = Number of Elements / Number of Buckets
e.g
    - Load Factor = 50 / 100
    - Load Factor = 0.5
  
    1. Performance:
        - A lower load factor reduces the number of collisions. Lower Load Factor means there are more slots(buckets) available. 
    2. Resizing:
        - When a load factor exceeds a certain threshold which is commonly `0.75`, it means that hashtable has to be resized(usually doubled in size) and all hashtable has to be rehashed again.
        - Resizing involves allocating a new larger array and re-inserting all existing elements into this new array which is a costly operation






